server/README.md, before:

jBPM Workbench Showcase Docker image
=====================================

JBoss jBPM Server Full [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Database
* Logging
* GIT internal repository access
* Persistent configuration
* Environment variables
* Experimenting
* Troubleshooting
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:

* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* jBPM Workbench 7.28.0.Final
* KIE Server 7.28.0.Final
* jBPM Case Management Showcase 7.28.0.Final

This is a **ready to run Docker image for jBPM Workbench**. Just run it and try the jBPM Workbench!

Usage
-----

To run a container:

    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Once container and web applications started, you can navigate to it using one of the users described in section `Users and roles`, using the following URL:

    http://localhost:8080/business-central

Users and roles
----------------

This showcase image contains default users and roles:

    USER        PASSWORD    ROLE
    *************************************************
    wbadmin     wbadmin     admin,analyst,user,process-admin,kie-server
    krisv       krisv       admin,analyst,user,process-admin,kie-server
    john        john        analyst,Accounting,PM,kie-server
    sales-rep   sales-rep   analyst,sales,kie-server
    katy        katy        analyst,HR,kie-server
    jack        jack        analyst,IT,kie-server

Database
--------

This image supports using H2, MySQL, PostgreSQL as the database. By default with H2 database with file storage - located under <JBOSS_HOME>/standalone/data/jbpm-db.
The container configuration allows you to switch to either MySQL or PostgreSQL database via a set of environment variables.
Alternatively, you can use the provided Docker compose examples to get started using an alternative database.

## Docker compose examples

### MySQL Example

    docker-compose -f docker-compose-examples/jbpm-full-mysql.yml up

### PostgreSQL Example

    docker-compose -f docker-compose-examples/jbpm-full-postgres.yml up

## Environment variables

* `JBPM_DB_DRIVER` = Specify which database driver to use. Allows either: 'h2', 'mysql' or 'postgres'. Default: 'h2'. 
* `JBPM_DB_HOST` = Specify hostname of the database. Default: 'localhost'  
* `JBPM_DB_PORT` = Specify port of the database. Default: '3306' if using 'mysql' driver or '5432' in case of 'postgres'.
* `JBPM_DB_NAME` = Specify name of the database to use. Default: 'jbpm'
* `JBPM_DB_USER` = Specify user to use to authenticate to the database. Default: 'jbpm'
* `JBPM_DB_PASSWORD` = Specify user's password to use to authenticate to the database. Default: 'jbpm'

### MySQL Example

    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full -e JBPM_DB_DRIVER=mysql -e JBPM_DB_HOST=172.17.0.1 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

### PostgreSQL Example

    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full -e JBPM_DB_DRIVER=postgres -e JBPM_DB_HOST=172.17.0.1 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    docker logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    docker attach <container_id>

The jBPM Workbench and Kie Server web applications logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(docker inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(docker ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

GIT internal repository access
------------------------------

The workbench stores all the project artifacts in an internal GIT repository. By default, the protocol available for accessing the GIT repository is `SSH` at port `8001`.

As an example, if you import the `IT_Orders` sample project, you can clone it by running:
 
    git clone ssh://wbadmin@localhost:8001/MySpace/IT_Orders
    
NOTE: Users and password for ssh access are the same that for the web application users defined at the realm files.    

By default, the GIT repository is created when the application starts for first time at `$WORKING_DIR/.niogit`, considering `$WORKING_DIR` as the current directory where the application server is started.

You can specify a custom repository location by setting the following Java system property to your target file system directory:
 
        -Dorg.uberfire.nio.git.dir=/home/youruser/some/path

NOTE: This directory can be shared with your docker host and with another containers using shared volumes when running the container, if you need so.


Persistent configuration
------------------------

As Docker defaults, once a container has been removed, the data within that container is removed as well. That includes any assets you created and projects that you deployed to the Kie Server using the local Maven repository.

In the case you need to create a persistent environment you can use an approach based on [Docker Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/). Here are two ways of doing it.

**Using default GIT root directory**

By default, the internal GIT root directory for the workbench container is located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/.niogit`, so you can make this directory persistent in your docker host by running the container using a docker shared volume as:

    # Use -v <SOURCE_FS_PATH>:<CONTAINER_FS_PATH>
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -v /home/myuser/wb_git:/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/.niogit:Z -d --name jbpm-server-full jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Please create `/home/myuser/wb_git` before running the docker container and ensure you have set the right permissions.
As the above command, now your workbench git repository will be persistent at your host filesystem's path `/home/myuser/wb_git`. So if you remove this container and start a new one just by using same shared volume, you'll find all your assets on the new workbench's container as well.

In order to keep the git repositories between different containers you can just start the container by configuring a new host volume as:

    # Use -v <SOURCE_FS_PATH>:<CONTAINER_FS_PATH>
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -v /home/myuser/wb_git:/opt/jboss/wildfly/.niogit:Z -d --name jbpm-workbench jboss/jbpm-workbench-showcase:MY_TAG
    
As the above command, now your workbench git repository will be persistent at your local filesystem path `/home/myuser/wb_git`. So if you remove this container and start a new one just by using same shared volume, you'll find all your assets on the new workbench's container as well.

Environment variables
---------------------

* `KIE_SERVER_ID` = Specify the identifier to be used by the Kie Server configuration. Default: 'sample-server'
* `KIE_SERVER_LOCATION` = Specify the public url for the Kie Server. Default: 'http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server'
    
Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If the application can't be accessed via browser (http://localhost:8080/business-central) please run the container in [host network mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#network-settings). It seems that latest docker versions have some restrictions on the networking side. Using an older daemon version this does not happen.
Try:

    docker run ... --network="host" ...

Notes
-----

* jBPM Workbench version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for jBPM Workbench web application is `business-central`
* KIE Server version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for KIE Server web application is `kie-server`
* jBPM Case Management Showcase version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for jBPM Case Management Showcase web application is `jbpm-casemgmt`
* jBPM Server Full requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1 using the `full` server profile
* Examples and demos are always available, also when not connected to internet
* No support for clustering
* Use of embedded H2 database server by default
* No support for Wildfly domain mode, just standalone mode
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [jBPM Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jbpm-setup) or [jBPM Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jbpm-usage) Google groups.

Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [jBPM](http://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/7.28.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html_single/#_jbpmreleasenotes)

Commit message:

changed server because of Podman changes

server/README.md, after:

jBPM Workbench Showcase Docker image
=====================================

JBoss jBPM Server Full [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Database
* Logging
* GIT internal repository access
* Persistent configuration
* Environment variables
* Experimenting
* Troubleshooting
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:

* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* jBPM Workbench 7.28.0.Final
* KIE Server 7.28.0.Final
* jBPM Case Management Showcase 7.28.0.Final

This is a **ready to run Docker image for jBPM Workbench**. Just run it and try the jBPM Workbench!

Usage
-----

To run a container:

    sudo podman run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Once container and web applications started, you can navigate to it using one of the users described in section `Users and roles`, using the following URL:

    http://localhost:8080/business-central

Users and roles
----------------

This showcase image contains default users and roles:

    USER        PASSWORD    ROLE
    *************************************************
    wbadmin     wbadmin     admin,analyst,user,process-admin,kie-server
    krisv       krisv       admin,analyst,user,process-admin,kie-server
    john        john        analyst,Accounting,PM,kie-server
    sales-rep   sales-rep   analyst,sales,kie-server
    katy        katy        analyst,HR,kie-server
    jack        jack        analyst,IT,kie-server

Database
--------

This image supports using H2, MySQL, PostgreSQL as the database. By default with H2 database with file storage - located under <JBOSS_HOME>/standalone/data/jbpm-db.
The container configuration allows you to switch to either MySQL or PostgreSQL database via a set of environment variables.
Alternatively, you can use the provided Docker compose examples to get started using an alternative database.

## Docker compose examples

### MySQL Example

    docker-compose -f docker-compose-examples/jbpm-full-mysql.yml up

### PostgreSQL Example

    docker-compose -f docker-compose-examples/jbpm-full-postgres.yml up

## Environment variables

* `JBPM_DB_DRIVER` = Specify which database driver to use. Allows either: 'h2', 'mysql' or 'postgres'. Default: 'h2'. 
* `JBPM_DB_HOST` = Specify hostname of the database. Default: 'localhost'  
* `JBPM_DB_PORT` = Specify port of the database. Default: '3306' if using 'mysql' driver or '5432' in case of 'postgres'.
* `JBPM_DB_NAME` = Specify name of the database to use. Default: 'jbpm'
* `JBPM_DB_USER` = Specify user to use to authenticate to the database. Default: 'jbpm'
* `JBPM_DB_PASSWORD` = Specify user's password to use to authenticate to the database. Default: 'jbpm'

### MySQL Example

    sudo podman run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full -e JBPM_DB_DRIVER=mysql -e JBPM_DB_HOST=172.17.0.1 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

### PostgreSQL Example

    sudo podman run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name jbpm-server-full -e JBPM_DB_DRIVER=postgres -e JBPM_DB_HOST=172.17.0.1 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    sudo podman logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    sudo podman attach <container_id>

The jBPM Workbench and Kie Server web applications logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(sudo podman inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(sudo podman ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

GIT internal repository access
------------------------------

The workbench stores all the project artifacts in an internal GIT repository. By default, the protocol available for accessing the GIT repository is `SSH` at port `8001`.

As an example, if you import the `IT_Orders` sample project, you can clone it by running:
 
    git clone ssh://wbadmin@localhost:8001/MySpace/IT_Orders
    
NOTE: Users and password for ssh access are the same that for the web application users defined at the realm files.    

By default, the GIT repository is created when the application starts for first time at `$WORKING_DIR/.niogit`, considering `$WORKING_DIR` as the current directory where the application server is started.

You can specify a custom repository location by setting the following Java system property to your target file system directory:
 
        -Dorg.uberfire.nio.git.dir=/home/youruser/some/path

NOTE: This directory can be shared with your docker host and with another containers using shared volumes when running the container, if you need so.


Persistent configuration
------------------------

As Docker defaults, once a container has been removed, the data within that container is removed as well. That includes any assets you created and projects that you deployed to the Kie Server using the local Maven repository.

In the case you need to create a persistent environment you can use an approach based on [Docker Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/). Here are two ways of doing it.

**Using default GIT root directory**

By default, the internal GIT root directory for the workbench container is located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/.niogit`, so you can make this directory persistent in your docker host by running the container using a docker shared volume as:

    # Use -v <SOURCE_FS_PATH>:<CONTAINER_FS_PATH>
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -v /home/myuser/wb_git:/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/.niogit:Z -d --name jbpm-server-full jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest

Please create `/home/myuser/wb_git` before running the docker container and ensure you have set the right permissions.
As the above command, now your workbench git repository will be persistent at your host filesystem's path `/home/myuser/wb_git`. So if you remove this container and start a new one just by using same shared volume, you'll find all your assets on the new workbench's container as well.

In order to keep the git repositories between different containers you can just start the container by configuring a new host volume as:

    # Use -v <SOURCE_FS_PATH>:<CONTAINER_FS_PATH>
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -v /home/myuser/wb_git:/opt/jboss/wildfly/.niogit:Z -d --name jbpm-workbench jboss/jbpm-workbench-showcase:MY_TAG
    
As the above command, now your workbench git repository will be persistent at your local filesystem path `/home/myuser/wb_git`. So if you remove this container and start a new one just by using same shared volume, you'll find all your assets on the new workbench's container as well.

Environment variables
---------------------

* `KIE_SERVER_ID` = Specify the identifier to be used by the Kie Server configuration. Default: 'sample-server'
* `KIE_SERVER_LOCATION` = Specify the public url for the Kie Server. Default: 'http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server'
    
Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    sudo podman run -t -i -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 jboss/jbpm-server-full:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If the application can't be accessed via browser (http://localhost:8080/business-central) please run the container in [host network mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#network-settings). It seems that latest docker versions have some restrictions on the networking side. Using an older daemon version this does not happen.
Try:

    sudo podman run ... --network="host" ...

Notes
-----

* Due to internal changes Podman is used instead of docker
  - all docker commands are still valid
  - if you want to use command in this script and you're using docker plese replace sudo podman or podman by docker
  - in case you're using Podman when running a container you have to run it in **root mode** (sudo xxx), otherwise the IP address will
    not be visible
* The change to Podman is easy
  - remove docker
  - install Podman (https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html)
  - create an alias in your .bashrc `alias docker="podman"`
  - every command in docker is translated to podman 
* The scripts build.sh and start.sh have to be run as `sudo ./build.sh` and `sudo ./start.sh`
* jBPM Workbench version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for jBPM Workbench web application is `business-central`
* KIE Server version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for KIE Server web application is `kie-server`
* jBPM Case Management Showcase version is `7.28.0.Final`
* The context path for jBPM Case Management Showcase web application is `jbpm-casemgmt`
* jBPM Server Full requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1 using the `full` server profile
* Examples and demos are always available, also when not connected to internet
* No support for clustering
* Use of embedded H2 database server by default
* No support for Wildfly domain mode, just standalone mode
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [jBPM Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jbpm-setup) or [jBPM Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jbpm-usage) Google groups.

Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [jBPM](http://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/7.28.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html_single/#_jbpmreleasenotes)
