kie-server/base/README.md, before:

Drools KIE Server Docker image
===============================

Drools KIE Server [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

More information of KIE Server available at [JBoss documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/#_ch.kie.server).

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Logging
* Extending this image
* Experimenting
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:    
           
* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* JBoss Drools KIE Server 7.28.0.Final

This image provides the Drools KIE Server. It's intended to be extended so you can add your custom configurations.                 

If you don't want to extend this image and you just want to try Drools KIE Server take a look at the `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` Docker image, it contains some default configurations.                   

Usage
-----

The JBoss KIE Execution server is intended to be used as a standalone runtime execution environment managed by a KIE Drools Workbench or a jBPM Workbench application that acts as a controller.              
This image does not provides any default configuration, so please to use the execution server it's recommended to read the documentation at [Installing the KIE Server](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/#_installing_the_kie_server). You can check an example of this configuration at the [KIE Server Showcase](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/jboss/kie-server-showcase/) Docker image too.

To run a container:
    
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -d --name kie-server jboss/kie-server:latest

Once container and web applications started, the application is available at:              

    http://localhost:8080/kie-server

The **REST API service** is located at:               

    http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server/


Users and roles
----------------

The application have no users or roles configured, so you cannot not access it by default,               

In order to use it, at least you have to create an application user in JBoss Wildfly with role `kie-server`.                  

If you are looking for a Drools KIE Server image that does not require to add custom configurations, try our `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` Docker image.

If you want to create your custom configuration and users, role, etc, you can take a look at section `Extending this image`.    


Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    docker logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    docker attach <container_id>

The Drools KIE Server web application logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(docker inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(docker ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

Extending this image
--------------------

You can extend this image and add your custom layers in order to add custom configurations, users, roles, etc.                  
 
In order to extend this image, your Dockerfile must inherit from:

    FROM jboss/kie-server:latest
    
**Configuring Wildfly**

* The Wildfly configuration files are located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`                   
* In this file you can modify all Wildfly's subsystem configurations                           
* Drools KIE Server requires running Wildfly using `full` profile, so custom modifications should be done in `standalone-full.xml` configuration file                      

**Users and roles**

* By default this image does not provide users and roles for Drools KIE Server                      

* In order to use it, you must create a user with role `kie-server`                                         

These are the steps to create your custom users and roles by using realm files in Widlfly:                  

1.- Create a realm properties file for users and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        kie-server-users.properties
        ---------------------
        kieserver=kieserver1!
        
2.- Create a realm properties file for roles and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        kie-server-roles.properties
        ---------------------
        kieserver=kie-server

3.- Modify your `standalone-full.xml` in order to:                
        
3.1 - In the `management` section, modify default the security-realm for the `ApplicationRealm` as:                   

        <security-realm name="ApplicationRealm">
              <authentication>
                <local default-user="$local" allowed-users="*" skip-group-loading="true"/>
                <properties path="kie-server-users.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authentication>
              <authorization>
                <properties path="kie-server-roles.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authorization>
          </security-realm>
          
3.2 - In the `security` subsystem, modify default the `other` security-domain for as:                         

        <security-domain name="other" cache-type="default">
          <authentication>
            <login-module code="UsersRoles" flag="required">
              <module-option name="usersProperties" value="${jboss.server.config.dir}/kie-server-users.properties"/>
              <module-option name="rolesProperties" value="${jboss.server.config.dir}/kie-server-roles.properties"/>
            </login-module>
          </authentication>
        </security-domain>

You can find an example by looking at the Dockerfile for `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` image.

Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    docker run -t -i -P 8080:8080 jboss/kie-server:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.

Notes
-----

* The context path for Drools KIE Server application services is `kie-server`
* Drools KIE Server version is `7.28.0.Final`
* Drools KIE Server requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final using the `full` server profile
* No users or roles are configured by default               
* No support for clustering                
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.                      
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [Drools Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-setup) or [Drools Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-usage) Google groups.              

Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [KIE-server](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/index.html#_ch.kie.server)

Commit message:

changed kie-server because of Podman changes

kie-server/base/README.md, after:

Drools KIE Server Docker image
===============================

Drools KIE Server [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

More information of KIE Server available at [JBoss documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/#_ch.kie.server).

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Logging
* Extending this image
* Experimenting
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:    
           
* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* JBoss Drools KIE Server 7.28.0.Final

This image provides the Drools KIE Server. It's intended to be extended so you can add your custom configurations.                 

If you don't want to extend this image and you just want to try Drools KIE Server take a look at the `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` Docker image, it contains some default configurations.                   

Usage
-----

The JBoss KIE Execution server is intended to be used as a standalone runtime execution environment managed by a KIE Drools Workbench or a jBPM Workbench application that acts as a controller.              
This image does not provides any default configuration, so please to use the execution server it's recommended to read the documentation at [Installing the KIE Server](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/#_installing_the_kie_server). You can check an example of this configuration at the [KIE Server Showcase](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/jboss/kie-server-showcase/) Docker image too.

To run a container:
    
    sudo podman run -p 8080:8080 -d --name kie-server jboss/kie-server:latest

Once container and web applications started, the application is available at:              

    http://localhost:8080/kie-server

The **REST API service** is located at:               

    http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server/


Users and roles
----------------

The application have no users or roles configured, so you cannot not access it by default,               

In order to use it, at least you have to create an application user in JBoss Wildfly with role `kie-server`.                  

If you are looking for a Drools KIE Server image that does not require to add custom configurations, try our `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` Docker image.

If you want to create your custom configuration and users, role, etc, you can take a look at section `Extending this image`.    


Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    sudo podman logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    sudo podman attach <container_id>

The Drools KIE Server web application logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(sudo podman inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(sudo podman ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

Extending this image
--------------------

You can extend this image and add your custom layers in order to add custom configurations, users, roles, etc.                  
 
In order to extend this image, your Dockerfile must inherit from:

    FROM jboss/kie-server:latest
    
**Configuring Wildfly**

* The Wildfly configuration files are located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`                   
* In this file you can modify all Wildfly's subsystem configurations                           
* Drools KIE Server requires running Wildfly using `full` profile, so custom modifications should be done in `standalone-full.xml` configuration file                      

**Users and roles**

* By default this image does not provide users and roles for Drools KIE Server                      

* In order to use it, you must create a user with role `kie-server`                                         

These are the steps to create your custom users and roles by using realm files in Widlfly:                  

1.- Create a realm properties file for users and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        kie-server-users.properties
        ---------------------
        kieserver=kieserver1!
        
2.- Create a realm properties file for roles and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        kie-server-roles.properties
        ---------------------
        kieserver=kie-server

3.- Modify your `standalone-full.xml` in order to:                
        
3.1 - In the `management` section, modify default the security-realm for the `ApplicationRealm` as:                   

        <security-realm name="ApplicationRealm">
              <authentication>
                <local default-user="$local" allowed-users="*" skip-group-loading="true"/>
                <properties path="kie-server-users.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authentication>
              <authorization>
                <properties path="kie-server-roles.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authorization>
          </security-realm>
          
3.2 - In the `security` subsystem, modify default the `other` security-domain for as:                         

        <security-domain name="other" cache-type="default">
          <authentication>
            <login-module code="UsersRoles" flag="required">
              <module-option name="usersProperties" value="${jboss.server.config.dir}/kie-server-users.properties"/>
              <module-option name="rolesProperties" value="${jboss.server.config.dir}/kie-server-roles.properties"/>
            </login-module>
          </authentication>
        </security-domain>

You can find an example by looking at the Dockerfile for `jboss/kie-server-showcase:latest` image.

Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    sudo podman run -t -i -P 8080:8080 jboss/kie-server:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.

Notes
-----

* Due to internal changes Podman is used instead of docker
  - all docker commands are still valid
  - if you want to use command in this script and you're using docker plese replace sudo podman or podman by docker
  - in case you're using Podman when running a container you have to run it in **root mode** (sudo xxx), otherwise the IP address will
    not be visible
* The change to Podman is easy
  - remove docker
  - install Podman (https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html)
  - create an alias in your .bashrc `alias docker="podman"`
  - every command in docker is translated to podman
* The scripts build.sh and start.sh have to be run as `sudo ./build.sh` and `sudo ./start.sh`  
* The context path for Drools KIE Server application services is `kie-server`
* Drools KIE Server version is `7.28.0.Final`
* Drools KIE Server requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final using the `full` server profile
* No users or roles are configured by default               
* No support for clustering                
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.                      
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [Drools Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-setup) or [Drools Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-usage) Google groups.              

Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [KIE-server](https://docs.jboss.org/drools/release/7.28.0.Final/drools-docs/html_single/index.html#_ch.kie.server)
