base/README.md, before:

JBoss Business-Central Workbench Docker image
=============================================

JBoss Business-Central Workbench [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Logging
* GIT internal repository
* Experimenting
* Extending this image
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:  
             
* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench 7.28.0.Final

This image provides the JBoss Business-Central Workbench. It's intended to be extended so you can add your custom configurations.

If you don't want to extend this image and you just want to try business-central Workbench take a look at the `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` Docker image, it contains some default configurations.

Usage
-----

To run a container:
    
    docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name business-central-workbench jboss/business-central-workbench:latest

Once container and web applications started, you can navigate into the business-central Workbench at:

    http://localhost:8080/business-central

Users and roles
----------------

The application have no users or roles configured, so you cannot not access it by default,               

In order to use it, at least you have to create an application user in JBoss Wildfly with role `admin`.                  

If you are looking for a JBoss Business-Central Workbench image that does not require to add custom configurations, try our `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` Docker image.

If you want to create your custom configuration and users, role, etc, you can take a look at section `Extending this image`                  


Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    docker logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    docker attach <container_id>

The JBoss Business-Central Workbench web application logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(docker inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(docker ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

GIT internal repository
-----------------------

The workbench stores all the project artifacts in an internal GIT repository. By default, the protocol available for accessing the GIT repository is `SSH` at port `8001`.            

You can clone the GIT repository by running:           

    git clone ssh://admin@localhost:8001/system

By default, the GIT repository is created when the application starts for first time at `$WORKING_DIR/.niogit`, considering `$WORKING_DIR` as the current directory where the application server is started.            

You can specify a custom repository location by setting the following Java system property to your target file system directory:                   
 
        -Dorg.uberfire.nio.git.dir=/home/youruser/some/path

NOTE: This directory can be shared with your docker host and with another containers using shared volumes when running the container, if you need so.            

If necessary you can make GIT repositories available from outside localhost using the following Java system property:                 
 
        -org.uberfire.nio.git.ssh.host=0.0.0.0
        
You can set this Java system properties permanent by adding the following lines in your `standalone-full.xml` file as:                
 
        <system-properties>
          <!-- Custom repository location. -->
          <property name="org.uberfire.nio.git.dir" value="/home/youruser/some/path"/>
          <!-- Make GIT repositories available from outside localhost. -->
          <property name="org.uberfire.nio.git.ssh.host" value="0.0.0.0"/>
        </system-properties>
    
NOTE: Users and password for ssh access are the same that for the web application users defined at the realm files.   

Extending this image
--------------------

You can extend this image and add your custom layers in order to add custom configurations, users, roles, etc.                  
 
In order to extend this image, your Dockerfile must inherit from:

    FROM jboss/business-central-workbench:latest
    
**Configuring Wildfly**

* The Wildfly configuration files are located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`                   
* In this file you can modify all Wildfly's subsystem configurations                           
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench requires running Wildfly using `full` profile, so custom modifications should be done in `standalone-full.xml` configuration file

**Users and roles**

* By default this image does not provide users and roles for JBoss Business-Central Workbench

* The available roles for JBoss Business-Central Workbench examples are:

        ROLE        DESCRIPTION
        *************************************************
        admin       The administrator
        analyst     The analyst
        developer   The developer
        manager     The manager
        user        The end user
        kiemgmt     KIE management user
        Accounting  Accounting role
        PM          Project manager role
        HR          Human resources role
        sales       Sales role
        IT          IT role

These are the steps to create your custom users and roles by using realm files in Widlfly:                  

1.- Create a realm properties file for users and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        business-central-users.properties
        ---------------------
        #admin=admin
        admin=207b6e0cc556d7084b5e2db7d822555c
        #analyst=analyst
        analyst=047ca331957b5ce5021e8e01d3322a13
        #developer=developer
        developer=97df44a197a58de9674af3cd139df47e
        #manager=manager
        manager=e5148a68341fbc5afbe08fb4ab6da2c5        
        #user=user
        user=c5568adea472163dfc00c19c6348a665

2.- Create a realm properties file for roles and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        business-central-roles.properties
        ---------------------
        admin=admin
        analyst=analyst
        developer=developer
        manager=manager
        user=user

3.- Modify your `standalone-full.xml` in order to:                
        
3.1 - In the `management` section, modify default the security-realm for the `ApplicationRealm` as:                   

        <security-realm name="ApplicationRealm">
              <authentication>
                <local default-user="$local" allowed-users="*" skip-group-loading="true"/>
                <properties path="business-central-users.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authentication>
              <authorization>
                <properties path="business-central-roles.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authorization>
          </security-realm>
          
3.2 - In the `security` subsystem, modify default the `other` security-domain for as:                         

        <security-domain name="other" cache-type="default">
          <authentication>
            <login-module code="Remoting" flag="optional">
              <module-option name="password-stacking" value="useFirstPass"/>
            </login-module>
            <login-module code="RealmDirect" flag="required">
              <module-option name="password-stacking" value="useFirstPass"/>
            </login-module>
            <login-module code="org.kie.security.jaas.KieLoginModule" flag="optional" module="deployment.business-central.war"/>
          </authentication>
        </security-domain>

You can find an example by looking at the Dockerfile for `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` image.

Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 jboss/business-central-workbench:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.


Troubleshoot
------------

If the application can't be accessed via browser (http://localhost:8080/business-central) please run the container in [host network mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#network-settings). It seems that latest docker versions have some restrictions on the networking side. Using an older daemon version this does not happen. 
Try:
    
    docker run .... --network="host .."

	
Notes
-----

* The context path for JBoss Business-Central Workbench web application is `business-central`
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench version is `7.28.0.Final`
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final using the `full` server profile
* No users or roles are configured by default               
* No support for clustering                
* Use of embedded H2 database server by default               
* No support for Wildfly domain mode, just standalone mode                    
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.                      
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [Drools Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-setup) or [Drools Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-usage) Google groups.              
* Since 7.18.0.Final the two images Drools Workbench (+ showcase) and jBPM Workbench (+ showcase) were unified into
one single image JBoss Business-Central Workbench (+ showcase). Drools Workbench and jBPM Workbench don't exist anymore in
versions > 7.18.0.Final

Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [JBoss Business-Central](http://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/7.28.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html_single/#_jbpmreleasenotes)

Commit message:

changes in business central for using Podman

base/README.md, after:

JBoss Business-Central Workbench Docker image
=============================================

JBoss Business-Central Workbench [Docker](http://docker.io/) image.

Table of contents
------------------

* Introduction
* Usage
* Users and roles
* Logging
* GIT internal repository
* Experimenting
* Extending this image
* Notes
* Release notes

Introduction
------------

The image contains:  
             
* JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench 7.28.0.Final

This image provides the JBoss Business-Central Workbench. It's intended to be extended so you can add your custom configurations.

If you don't want to extend this image and you just want to try business-central Workbench take a look at the `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` Docker image, it contains some default configurations.

Usage
-----

To run a container:
    
    sudo podman run -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 -d --name business-central-workbench jboss/business-central-workbench:latest

Once container and web applications started, you can navigate into the business-central Workbench at:

    http://localhost:8080/business-central

Users and roles
----------------

The application have no users or roles configured, so you cannot not access it by default,               

In order to use it, at least you have to create an application user in JBoss Wildfly with role `admin`.                  

If you are looking for a JBoss Business-Central Workbench image that does not require to add custom configurations, try our `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` Docker image.

If you want to create your custom configuration and users, role, etc, you can take a look at section `Extending this image`                  


Logging
-------

You can see all logs generated by the `standalone` binary running:

    sudo podman logs [-f] <container_id>
    
You can attach the container by running:

    sudo podman attach <container_id>

The JBoss Business-Central Workbench web application logs can be found inside the container at path:

    /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

    Example:
    sudo nsenter -t $(sudo podman inspect --format '{{ .State.Pid }}' $(sudo podman ps -lq)) -m -u -i -n -p -w
    -bash-4.2# tail -f /opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/log/server.log

GIT internal repository
-----------------------

The workbench stores all the project artifacts in an internal GIT repository. By default, the protocol available for accessing the GIT repository is `SSH` at port `8001`.            

You can clone the GIT repository by running:           

    git clone ssh://admin@localhost:8001/system

By default, the GIT repository is created when the application starts for first time at `$WORKING_DIR/.niogit`, considering `$WORKING_DIR` as the current directory where the application server is started.            

You can specify a custom repository location by setting the following Java system property to your target file system directory:                   
 
        -Dorg.uberfire.nio.git.dir=/home/youruser/some/path

NOTE: This directory can be shared with your docker host and with another containers using shared volumes when running the container, if you need so.            

If necessary you can make GIT repositories available from outside localhost using the following Java system property:                 
 
        -org.uberfire.nio.git.ssh.host=0.0.0.0
        
You can set this Java system properties permanent by adding the following lines in your `standalone-full.xml` file as:                
 
        <system-properties>
          <!-- Custom repository location. -->
          <property name="org.uberfire.nio.git.dir" value="/home/youruser/some/path"/>
          <!-- Make GIT repositories available from outside localhost. -->
          <property name="org.uberfire.nio.git.ssh.host" value="0.0.0.0"/>
        </system-properties>
    
NOTE: Users and password for ssh access are the same that for the web application users defined at the realm files.   

Extending this image
--------------------

You can extend this image and add your custom layers in order to add custom configurations, users, roles, etc.                  
 
In order to extend this image, your Dockerfile must inherit from:

    FROM jboss/business-central-workbench:latest
    
**Configuring Wildfly**

* The Wildfly configuration files are located at `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`                   
* In this file you can modify all Wildfly's subsystem configurations                           
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench requires running Wildfly using `full` profile, so custom modifications should be done in `standalone-full.xml` configuration file

**Users and roles**

* By default this image does not provide users and roles for JBoss Business-Central Workbench

* The available roles for JBoss Business-Central Workbench examples are:

        ROLE        DESCRIPTION
        *************************************************
        admin       The administrator
        analyst     The analyst
        developer   The developer
        manager     The manager
        user        The end user
        kiemgmt     KIE management user
        Accounting  Accounting role
        PM          Project manager role
        HR          Human resources role
        sales       Sales role
        IT          IT role

These are the steps to create your custom users and roles by using realm files in Widlfly:                  

1.- Create a realm properties file for users and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        business-central-users.properties
        ---------------------
        #admin=admin
        admin=207b6e0cc556d7084b5e2db7d822555c
        #analyst=analyst
        analyst=047ca331957b5ce5021e8e01d3322a13
        #developer=developer
        developer=97df44a197a58de9674af3cd139df47e
        #manager=manager
        manager=e5148a68341fbc5afbe08fb4ab6da2c5        
        #user=user
        user=c5568adea472163dfc00c19c6348a665

2.- Create a realm properties file for roles and deploy it in `/opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/configuration`:                 
 
        business-central-roles.properties
        ---------------------
        admin=admin
        analyst=analyst
        developer=developer
        manager=manager
        user=user

3.- Modify your `standalone-full.xml` in order to:                
        
3.1 - In the `management` section, modify default the security-realm for the `ApplicationRealm` as:                   

        <security-realm name="ApplicationRealm">
              <authentication>
                <local default-user="$local" allowed-users="*" skip-group-loading="true"/>
                <properties path="business-central-users.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authentication>
              <authorization>
                <properties path="business-central-roles.properties" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir"/>
              </authorization>
          </security-realm>
          
3.2 - In the `security` subsystem, modify default the `other` security-domain for as:                         

        <security-domain name="other" cache-type="default">
          <authentication>
            <login-module code="Remoting" flag="optional">
              <module-option name="password-stacking" value="useFirstPass"/>
            </login-module>
            <login-module code="RealmDirect" flag="required">
              <module-option name="password-stacking" value="useFirstPass"/>
            </login-module>
            <login-module code="org.kie.security.jaas.KieLoginModule" flag="optional" module="deployment.business-central.war"/>
          </authentication>
        </security-domain>

You can find an example by looking at the Dockerfile for `jboss/business-central-workbench-showcase:latest` image.

Experimenting
-------------

To spin up a shell in one of the containers try:

    sudo podman run -t -i -p 8080:8080 -p 8001:8001 jboss/business-central-workbench:latest /bin/bash

You can then noodle around the container and run stuff & look at files etc.


Troubleshoot
------------

If the application can't be accessed via browser (http://localhost:8080/business-central) please run the container in [host network mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#network-settings). It seems that latest docker versions have some restrictions on the networking side. Using an older daemon version this does not happen. 
Try:
    
    sudo podman run .... --network="host .."

	
Notes
-----

* Due to internal changes Podman is used instead of docker
  - all docker commands are still valid
  - if you want to use command in this script and you're using docker plese replace sudo podman or podman by docker
  - in case you're using Podman when running a container you have to run it in **root mode** (sudo xxx), otherwise the IP address will
    not be visible
* The change to Podman is easy
  - remove docker
  - install Podman (https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html)
  - create an alias in your .bashrc `alias docker="podman"`
  - every command in docker is translated to podman 
* The scripts build.sh and start.sh have to be run as `sudo ./build.sh` and `sudo ./start.sh`    
* The context path for JBoss Business-Central Workbench web application is `business-central`
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench version is `7.28.0.Final`
* JBoss Business-Central Workbench requires running JBoss Wildfly 14.0.1.Final using the `full` server profile
* No users or roles are configured by default               
* No support for clustering                
* Use of embedded H2 database server by default               
* No support for Wildfly domain mode, just standalone mode                    
* This image is not intended to be run on cloud environments such as RedHat OpenShift or Amazon EC2, as it does not meet all the requirements.                      
* Please give us your feedback or report a issue at [Drools Setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-setup) or [Drools Usage](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/drools-usage) Google groups.              


Release notes
--------------

**7.28.0.Final**

* See release notes for [JBoss Business-Central](http://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/7.28.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html_single/#_jbpmreleasenotes)
